

This is the second major area within Security. While Offensive Security involves actively finding vulnerabilities and misconfigurations within technologies, Defensive Security involves detecting and stopping these attacks.

This career track is for you if:

✓ you are analytical
✓ you enjoy problem solving


One of the careers under this track is a Security Analyst. This is an individual in an organisation who's job is to monitor various systems in the organisation and detect whether any of these systems are being attacked. To do this, you need to understand how underlying technologies work and then understand what attacks against these technologies look like. You can learn about this using this room:

✓ Detect Attacks Using Splunk


While a Security Analyst deals with detecting attacks, an Incident Responder is usually brought in once an attack has already occurred. Their main responsibilities include understanding what actions an attacker has taken in the organisation and what the impact of their actions will be. Incident Responders also need to know how underlying technologies work and what potential attacks could be carried out against a system. They then analyse trace evidence left by an attacker. You can learn about this on this room:

✓ Analyse Memory To Trace An Attackers Actions Using Volatility

While this is a very specialist role, malware analysis is quite common when detecting and responding to attacks. Malicious actors would use malicious pieces of software in any stage of their attack cycle from gaining access to a system to maintaining persistence. If you can understand what exactly this malware is doing, you can prevent further abuse and also identify the malicious action. You can learn about this on various rooms:

✓ Introduction To Malware Analysis
✓ Researching and Identifying Malware
✓ Identifying Strings In Malicious Applications

We also have 

a Cyber Defence pathway 

that covers a broad set of skills, tools and methodologies that would allow you to understand the fundamentals required for entry level Blue Team roles.


What is the name of the role who's job is to identify attacks against an organisation?

---> Security Analyst

